Guide to Running a Anomos Tracker - 0.1
Anomos Liberty Enhancements

This document describes how to run an Anomos tracker.

Step 0 - Requirements

    An Anomos tracker must be TIGHTLY secured and managed by a compentent *nix 
system administrator. A tracker should be run on a dedicated *nix server with no
other internet-facing services other than secure, key-authenticated SSH. The 
server should run a stable distro and security patches should be applied 
regularly.

    Tracker administrators should also be in regular contact with the Anomos
development team in case of any important security announcements, and because we
would like to be your friend. =]

Step 1 - runtracker.sh

You will need a series of scripts to help run your tracker.

To get them:

git clone git://git.anomos.info/git/anomos-testing.git

And put this in a folder above your Anomos source tree. In this folder, there is
a script called runtracker.sh

Execute it like so:
./runtracker.sh

If you wish to supply a specific port, use this:
./runtracker -p 443

If it doesn't run properly, make sure that it is pointing to your Anomos source
directory.

As this is your first time running the tracker, it will prompt you to answer
questions about your certificate. 
Make sure you answer these questions correctly.

Step 2 - Certificates

Answering the questions prompted by the script will produce a some new files in
the ./crypto folder. These are your certificates. Before other people can use
your tracker, you will need to have your certificates signed by CACert.org

To do this, you will first need to generate a CSR (Certificate Signing Request).
In your crypto folder, type:

openssl req -new -key server-key.pem

    Answer the questions it asks, especially the Common Name field, which must
be your tracker's domain name. Once you've answered the questions, OpenSSL will
spit out a CSR to the standard output.

Log into CACert, and select "Server Certificates" on the right of the screen,
then select "new" and paste the CSR (including the ---BEGIN/END--- lines) into 
the text box and hit submit. CACert will then give you a new server certificate.
Make a backup of your old server-cert.pem and replace the contents of the 
server-cert.pem file with the signed certificate you got from CACert.

Now clients will be able to authenticate connections with you.

Step 3 - Settings

You will almost certainly want to modify your tracker for your own purposes. 
This can be done by modifying the default arguments in the file 
./anomos/Anomos/track.py. Here are some of the most important values, though 
track.py should provide enough a good description of what each setting does.

allowed_dir - This decides what torrents should be allowed to be shared on the
tracker. If it is set, only torrent files in the supplied directory path we be
allowed to shared. If it is not set, clients will be able to announce with any
torrent's infohash.

parse_dir_interval - This is how often to check if there are new files in the
directory given by the previous argument. This will be useful if you wish to add
shareable files to a tracker without restarting it.

max_path_len - This specifies the maximum length of paths between peers for the 
tracker to generate.

Step 4 - Firewalls and Blocklists

    To beef up the security and performance of your tracker, you will most
likely want to set up a firewall rule and establish a blocklist. A good firewall
rule will limit the rate at which clients are able to make requests to prevent
flooding.
    Blocklists can be used to deny tracker access to corporations, governments
and independent groups who have proven themselves to be harmful to privacy and
the operation of peer to peer networks. Blocklists can be found from
www.bluetack.co.uk and www.iblocklist.com. There is a script called linblock,
available at www.dessent.net/linblock/ which will automatically download and 
install these lists.
    There are downsides to blocklists - for one thing, they are never complete,
and they must not be relied on for complete security. The other downside is that
they may accidentally block parties who aren't malicious, which would deny
access to some legitimate users. Take this into consideration if you do decide
to use blocklists.

If you still have questions, please feel free to ask!
We are available in these places:
    Email - partners@anomos.info
    Web Forum - http://forum.anomos.info
    IRC - #anomos on irc.freenode.org

Happy tracking!
